# Basketball-Statistics
Utilizing Excel to analyze basketball data.
 
For this assessment you will use data generated by fivethirtyeight.com about the NBA from 2014-2020. The original data can be found here: https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/nba-raptor.

### A brief orientation to basketball as it pertains to this dataset (for those who need it)  
In basketball a team consists of multiple players, only a few of which play at a given time. Two teams compete to score the most points and win the game. Plays can be subdivided into _*offensive*_, where a team attempts to increase it's point total, and _*defensive*_, where a team attempts to prevent the other team from increasing their point total. Teams compete against each other over a period of time, called the _*regular season*_. At the end of the _*regular season*_ teams are ranked based on their ratio of wins to losses, and the top teams compete in the _*playoffs*_, also called the _*post season*_. During the _*playoffs*_ teams must win to continue playing, and the last team remaining wins.

This is repeated each year, or _*season*_. The data set separates the _*regular season (RS)*_ from the _*playoffs (PO)*_. The _*team*_ a player plays for during a given _*season*_ is also noted. This can vary from year to year as players are traded between teams.

This dataset gives numerical values for multiple _*offensive*_ and _*defensive*_ measures, as well as comparing the _*regular season*_ to the _*playoffs*_. Each row represents a single player for a given season, season type (_*RS*_ or _*PO*_) and team.

Note: RAPTOR and WAR are acronyms for the calculation used, not team names or the actual word. RAPTOR stands for "Robust Algorithm (using) Player Tracking (and) On/Off Ratings" and WAR stands for "Wins Above Replacement".

## Questions  
_Record your answers to all your questions in the *answers* sheet. You may add additional sheets that are subsets of the original dataset but your final answers must appear in the *answers* sheet. There are clearly labeled spots for each answer. Unless explicitly stated you can use whatever approach you want to answer the questions._

1. Calculate the mean, median, min, and max for `raptor_offense`, `raptor_defense`, `raptor_total`, `war_total`, and `war_reg_season`.

2. Use a formula to find which player had the highest `raptor_offense` and which player had the highest `raptor_defense`. Also pull in the `season`, `season_type`, and `team` for each.

3. Calculate the average minutes played by OKC players.

4. Get the names of players in the **top 25%** of `war_reg_season` in 2019. Hint: You may need to copy the 2019 data into a new sheet, but your answer should still be in the `answers` sheet. Be sure to only take rows from the regular season (`RS`).

5. James Harden, LeBron James, Giannis Antetokounmpo, Kawhi Leonard, and Rudy Gobert are the top 5 players in 2020, according to fivethirtyeight.com, where these data came from (https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/2020-nba-player-ratings/). For each of these 5 players, use a `VLOOKUP` to get their `raptor_offense`, `raptor_defense`, and `war_playoffs` in 2017 (Hint: Filter `season` to 2017 and `season_type` to "PO" and copy it to a new sheet). Once you have those values, answer the following questions:  
a. Which of the top 5 was the best offensive player?  
b. Which of the top 5 was the best defensive player?  
c. Which of the top 5 was most valuable during the playoffs?  
d. Create a visualization that best represents your findings.

6. Use a pivot table to observe each team's `war_total` for each year. Make a visualization to represent the data. List 3 teams that have a generally positive trend and 3 that have a generally negative trend over the entire time frame (no need for additional calculations, just use the visualization and the pivot table).
